salem (( special )) 
 for a second month in a row ,, multnomah county may be short of general assistance money in its$ budget to handle an unusually high summer month's$ need ,, the state public welfare commission was told friday ..


	it is the only county in the state so far this month reporting a possible shortage in ga category ,, for which emergency allotment can be given by the state if necessary ..


	william smythe ,, director of field service ,, told the commissioners that multnomah ,, as of aug. 22 ,, had spent $58,918 out of its$ budgeted $66,000 in the category ,, leaving only $7,082 for the rest of the month ..


	at the rate of need indicated in the early weeks of the month ,, this could mean a shortage of as high as $17,000 ..
but it probably will be less because of a usual slackening during the last weeks of each month ,, smythe said ..
no request for emergency allotment had yet been received ,, however ..



board oks pact 
the commission ,, meeting for the first time with both of its$ newly commissioners ,, roy webster ,, of hood river ,, and dr. ennis keizer ,, of north bend ,, approved a year's$ contract for a consultant in the data processing department who has been the center of considerable controversy in the past ..


	the contract with ray field ,, who has been converting the agencies electronic data processing program to magnetic tape ,, would renew his$ present salary of $8 an hour up to a maximum of 200 hours a month ..


	field does the planning for the machine operations and fiscal processes and the adapting of the data processing system to new programs as they are made necessary by legislative and policy changes ..


	acting administrator andrew f. juras said that because of field's$ unique position and knowledge in the program ,, the agency now would be seriously handicapped if he was not* continued for a period ..


	but he emphasized that the agency must train people within its$ own employ to fulfill what field handles ,, and he said he personally ```` regrets very much that the agency has not* done this in the past '''' ..


	he pointed out to the commissioners that the agency was literally dependent now on the machine processing ,, ```` and the whole wheels of the agency would stop if it broke down or the three or four persons directing it were to leave '''' ..



salary termed modest 
juras said he insisted field be continued on a consultant basis only and be answerable directly to the administrator of the agency and not* to other agencies of the government ..
he also said that the salary ,, in terms of going rates in the field ,, was ```` modest '''' in terms of the man's$ responsibility ..
the conversion to magnetic tape is not* yet completed ,, he said ,, and added field's$ long service in state government and welfare employ gave him familiarity with the welfare program ..


	```` do you feel you can stand up to the next legislative session and defend this contract '''' ?. ?.
asked mrs. grace o. peck ,, representative from multnomah county ,, of the commission chairman ,, joseph e. harvey jr. ..


	```` my$ feeling at the moment '''' ,, he said ,, ```` is that we have no alternative ,, irrespective of some of the arguments about him ..
the continued operation of this program depends on having his$ service '''' ..



harvey criticized 
mrs. peck ,, later joined by the commission's$ vice ,, mrs. lee patterson ,, took harvey to task for comments he had made to the north portland rotary club tuesday ..


	a publicity release from oregon physicians service ,, of which harvey is president ,, quoted him as saying the welfare office move to salem ,, instead of ```` crippling '''' the agency ,, had provided an avenue to correct administrative weaknesses ,, with the key being improved communications between f & a and the commission staff ..


	```` i rather resent '''' ,, she said ,, ```` you speaking to those groups in portland as though just the move accomplished this ..
i think you fell short of the real truth in the matter :: that the move is working out through the fine cooperation of the staff and all the people ..
the staff deserves a lot of credit working down here under real obstacles '''' ..


	harvey said his$ objective was to create a better public image for welfare '''' ..


	the wife of convicted bank robber lawrence g. huntley was arrested in phoenix ,, ariz. ,, last week and will be returned to portland to face charges of assault and robbery ,, portland detectives said friday ..


	mrs. lavaughn huntley is accused of driving the getaway car used in a robbery of the woodyard bros.'$ grocery ,, 2825 e. burnside st. ,, in april of 1959 ..


	her$ husband ,, who was sentenced to 15 years in the federal prison at mcneil island last april for robbery of the hillsdale branch of multnomah bank ,, also was charged with the store holdup ..
secret grand jury indictments were returned against the pair last week ,, detective murray logan reported ..


	the phoenix arrest culminates more than a year's$ investigation by detective william taylor and other officers ..
taylor said mrs. huntley and her$ husband also will be questioned about a series of 15 portland robberies in spring of 1959 in which the holdup men bound their$ victims with tape before fleeing ..


	mrs. huntley was held on $20,000 bond in phoenix ..
she was arrested by phoenix police after they received the indictment papers from portland detectives ..


	a 12 girl ,, susan elaine smith ,, 9329 ne schuyler st. was in serious condition friday at bess kaiser hospital ,, victim of a bicycle collision in the gateway shopping center ,, parking area ,, deputy sheriff w. h. forsyth reported ..


	funeral for william joseph brett ,, 1926 ne 50th ave. ,, who died thursday in portland ,, will be monday 1 p.m. at the riverview abbey ..


	mr. brett ,, born in brooklyn ,, n.y. ,, dec. 15 ,, 1886 ,, came to portland in 1920 ..
he owned a logging equipment business here from 1923 to 1928 ,, and later became northwest district manager for macwhyte co. ..
he retired in 1958 ..


	survivors are his$ widow ,, alice ;. ;.
a son ,, william ,, seattle ,, wash. ;. ;.
three sisters ,, mrs. eugene horstman ,, los angeles ,, mrs. lucy brett andrew ,, new york city ,, and mrs. beatrice kiefferm ,, new york city ,, and five grandchildren ..


	employes of montgomery ward & co. at the dalles ,, in a national labor relations board election thursday voted to decertify local 1565 ,, retail clerks international association ,, afl ,, as their$ collective bargaining agent ..


	the nlrb said that of 11 potentially eligible voters eight voted against the union ,, two voted for it ,, and one vote was challenged ..


	monte brooks ,, 67 ,, theatrical producer and band leader ,, collapsed and died thursday in a lloyd center restaurant ..
he lived at 6124 n. willamette blvd. ..


	for many years he had provided music and entertainment for functions throughout the northwest ..
these included oregon state fair ,, for which he had been booked on and off ,, for 30 years ..


	he collaborated with many of the big name entertainers visiting portland ,, among the most recent being jimmy durante and phil silvers ..


	he had conducted the 20 band in a series of concerts at blue lake park during the summer months ..


	mr. brooks was born in new york ,, and came to portland in 1920 ..
he planned at one time to enter the legal profession ,, but gave up the plan in favor of the entertainment field ..


	he was a member of harmony lodge ,, no. 12 ,, af & am ,, scottish rite ;. ;.
al kader temple of the shrine ;. ;.
order of elks ,, lodge no. 142 ;. ;.
40 & 8 voiture ,, no. 25 ,, musician's$ union ,, local 99 ..


	he was a former commander of willamette heights ,, post ,, and a member of nevah sholom congregation ..


	survivors are his$ widow ,, tearle ;. ;.
a son ,, sheldon brooks ;. ;.
a daughter ,, mrs. sidney s. stein jr. ,, dorenzo ,, calif. ;. ;.
a sister ,, mrs. birdie gevurtz ;. ;.
two brothers ,, charley and aaron cohn ,, san francisco ;. ;.
and five grandchildren ..


	services will be at 30 p.m. monday at holman & son funeral home ,, with interment in neveh zebek cemetery ..
the family requests that flowers be omitted ..


	a 16 portland businessman and his$ junior achievement company ,, have been judged the ```` company of the year '''' in national competition completed this week at ohio state university ,, columbus ,, ohio ..


	tim larson ,, a junior at wilson high school and president of spice ,, is the young executive who guided his$ firm to the top position over the 4,500 other junior achievement companies in the united states and canada ..
the award is the first such honor in the 11 history of ja activities in portland ,, according to ralph scolatti ,, local executive director for junior achievement ..


	spice ,, counseled by georgia corp. ,, had previously taken first honors in both local competition and the regional conference at san francisco ..
the ```` pocket '''' company set records with $2,170 in sales of its$ products ,, a selection of barbecue spices ,, and paid stockholders a 20 per cent dividend on their$ investment ..



youngsters do business 
the junior achievement program is designed to give teenagers practical experience in business by allowing them actually to form small companies ,, under the guidance and sponsorship of business firms ..
the youngsters sell stock ,, produce and sell a product ,, pay taxes ,, and show a profit or loss just like full businesses ..


	national competition was the culmination of work which began with the school year last fall and continued until just before summer vacation ..
participants in the 27 portland companies worked one night a week through the school year ,, guided and counseled by adult advisors drawn from local business and industry ..
over 400 portland firms contributed funds for the maintenance of junior achievement headquarters here ..


	for winning larson will receive a $100 u.s. savings bond from the junior achievement national organization ..
his$ company ,, spice ,, will receive a $250 award ,, which will be distributed among the 16 charter members ..



g men served 
advisors for the ```` national champion '''' company were john k. morgan ,, william h. baker ,, leonard breuer and william f. stephenson ,, all of georgia corp. ..


	young larson is the son of mr. and mrs. lawrence larson ,, 5847 sw nevada ct. ,, portland ..


	other members of the portland delegation attending the conference in columbus are :: kathleen mason ,, jefferson high school ;. ;.
phil reifenrath ,, madison high school ;. ;.
ann wegener ,, madison ;. ;.
richard e. cohn ,, grant ;. ;.
karen kolb ,, franklin ;. ;.
and shelby carlson ,, cleveland ..
hillsboro (( special )) 
 washington county's$ 36th annual fair will close saturday evening with 4 and ffa awards program at 7 ,, public dance at 8 and variety show at 8:30 ..


	on the day's$ schedule are a flower show ,, 4 horsemanship contest and clown shows ,, the latter at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. ..


	attendance continued to run ahead of last year's$ during the five show ,, with clear skies helping attract fairgoers ..


	exhibition ballroom dancers from the studio of helen wick walters of hillsboro won the all talent contest ..
bill davis quartet of hillsboro was second and baton twirler sue ann nuttall of reedville third ..
finalists from the county's$ east end failed to place ..



results :: 
janet jossy of north plains won grand champion honors of the 4 sheep showman contest ..
blue ribbons went to stephanie shaw of hillsboro ,, larry hinton of beaverton ..
joan zurcher of hillsboro ,, phyllis jossy of north plains ,, jane cox of north plains ..
kathy jossy of hillsboro ,, carol jossy of north plains and lorlyn and tom zurcher of hillsboro ..


	tom day of beaverton exhibited the grand champion 4 market hog ,, a chester white ..
also winning blue ribbons were bob day of beaverton ,, tony traxel of beaverton and steve hutchins of banks ..


	swine showmanship championship went to bob day ,, with tom day and hutchins winning other blues ..


	charles reynolds of pumpkin ridge was rabbit showmanship champion ..


	in poultry judging ,, blues were won by john nyberg of tualatin ,, anne batchelder of hillsboro ,, jim shaw of hillsboro ,, stephanie shaw of hillsboro and lynn robinson of tigard ..


	blue ribbon for one dozen white eggs was taken by nyberg ..


	in open class poultry ,, donald wacklin of sherwood had the champion male and female bird and grand champion bird ..


	john haase & son of corneilus was the only entrant in open class swine and swept all championships ..


	carol strong ,, 13 ,, of cedar mill cooked the championship junior dollar dinner ..
millie jansen ,, high school senior from verboort ,, had the championship dollar dinner ,, and jody jaross of hillsboro also won a blue ribbon ..


	barbara borland of tigard took top senior individual home economics honors with a demonstration called filbert hats ..

