

	resentment welled up yesterday among democratic district leaders and some county leaders at reports that mayor wagner had decided to seek a third term with paul r. screvane and abraham d. beame as running mates ..


	at the same time reaction among anti democratic leaders and in the liberal party to the mayor's$ reported plan was generally favorable ..


	some anti democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal fight within the democratic party that has been going on for the last three years ..


	the resentment among democratic organization leaders to the reported wagner plan was directed particularly at the mayor's$ efforts to name his$ own running mates without consulting the leaders ..
some viewed this attempt as evidence that mr. wagner regarded himself as bigger than the party ..



opposition reported 
some democratic district and county leaders are reported trying to induce state controller arthur levitt of brooklyn to oppose mr. wagner for the mayoral nomination in the sept. 7 democratic primary ..


	these contend there is a serious question as to whether mr. wagner has the confidence of the democratic rank and file in the city ..
their$ view is that last changes the mayor is proposing to make in the democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of his$ performance as mayor ..


	in an apparent effort to head off such a rival primary slate ,, mr. wagner talked by telephone yesterday with representative charles a. buckley ,, the bronx democratic leader ,, and with joseph t. sharkey ,, the brooklyn democratic leader ..



mayor visits buckley 
as usual ,, he made no attempt to get in touch with carmine g. de sapio ,, the manhattan leader ..
he is publicly on record as believing mr. de sapio should be replaced for the good of the party ..


	last night the mayor visited mr. buckley at the bronx leader's$ home for a discussion of the situation ..
apparently he believes mr. buckley holds the key to the democratic organization's$ acceptance of his$ choices for running mates without a struggle ..


	in talks with mr. buckley last week in washington ,, the mayor apparently received the bronx leader's$ assent to dropping controller lawrence e. gerosa ,, who lives in the bronx ,, from this year's$ ticket ..
but mr. buckley seems to have assumed he would be given the right to pick mr. gerosa's$ successor ..



screvane and beame hailed 
the mayor declined in two interviews with reporters yesterday to confirm or deny the reports that he had decided to run and wanted mr. screvane ,, who lives in queens ,, to replace abe stark ,, the incumbent ,, as the candidate for president of the city council and mr. beame ,, who lives in brooklyn ,, to replace mr. gerosa as the candidate for controller ..


	the mayor spoke yesterday at the united irish counties feis on the hunter college campus in the bronx ..
after his$ speech ,, reporters asked him about the report of his$ political intentions ,, published in yesterday's$ new york times ..
the mayor said :: 

	```` it didn't* come from me ..
but as i have said before ,, if i announce my$ candidacy ,, i will have something definite to say about running mates '''' ..
boston ,, june 16 
 a wave of public resentment against corruption in government is rising in massachusetts ..


	there is a tangible feeling in the air of revulsion toward politics ..
the taxi driver taking the visitor from the airport remarks that politicians in the state are ```` all the same '''' ..


	```` it's+bez '' see joe ,, see jim '' '''' ,, he says ..
```` the hand is out '''' ..


	a political scientist writes of the growth of ```` alienated voters '''' ,, who ```` believe that voting is useless because politicians or those who influence politicians are corrupt ,, selfish and beyond popular control ..
these voters view the political process as a secret conspiracy ,, the object of which is to plunder them '''' ..


	corruption is hardly a recent development in the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of edwin o'connor's$ novel ,, ```` the last hurrah '''' ..
but there are reasons for the current spotlight on the subject ..


	a succession of highly publicized scandals has aroused the public within the last year ..
graft in the construction of highways and other public works has brought on state and federal investigations ..
and the election of president kennedy has attracted new attention to the ethical climate of his$ home state ..


	a reader of the boston newspapers can hardly escape the impression that petty chicanery ,, or worse ,, is the norm in massachusetts public life ..
day after day some new episode is reported ..


	the state public works department is accused of having spent $8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on his$ waterfront property ..
an assistant attorney general is directed to investigate ..
washington ,, june 18 
 congress starts another week tomorrow with sharply contrasting forecasts for the two chambers ..


	in the senate ,, several bills are expected to pass without any major conflict or opposition ..
in the house ,, the southern coalition is expected to make another major stand in opposition to the administration's$ housing bill ,, while more jockeying is expected in an attempt to advance the aid bill ..


	the housing bill is now in the house rules committee ..
it is expected to be reported out tuesday ,, but this is a little uncertain ..


	the panel's$ action depends on the return of representative james w. trimble ,, democrat of arkansas ,, who has been siding with speaker sam rayburn's$ forces in the rules committee in moving bills to the floor ..
mr. trimble has been in the hospital but is expected back tuesday ..



leadership is hopeful 
the housing bill is expected to encounter strong opposition by the coalition of southern democrats and conservative republicans ..
the democratic leadership ,, however ,, hopes to pass it sometime this week ..


	the $6,100,000,000 measure ,, which was passed last monday by the senate ,, provides for forty mortgages at low down for moderate families ..
it also provides for funds to clear slums and help colleges build dormitories ..


	the education bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the rules committee ,, where two northern democratic members who usually vote with the administration are balking because of the religious controversy ..
they are james j. delaney of queens and thomas p. o'neill jr. of massachusetts ..



three groups to meet 
what could rescue the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amending the national defense education act of 1958 ..
this would provide for long federal loans for construction of parochial and other private facilities for teaching science ,, languages and mathematics ..


	mr. delaney and mr. o'neill are not* willing to vote on the public measure until the defense education bill clears the house education and labor committee ..


	about half of all peace corps projects assigned to voluntary agencies will be carried out by religious groups ,, according to an official of the corps ..


	in the $40,000,000 budget that has been submitted for congressional approval ,, $26,000,000 would be spent through universities and private voluntary agencies ..


	twelve projects proposed by private groups are at the contract stage ,, gordon boyce ,, director of relations with the voluntary agencies ,, said in a washington interview ..
six of these were proposed by religious groups ..
they will be for teaching ,, agriculture and community development in southeast asia ,, africa ,, the middle east and latin america ..



question raised 
interviews with several church leaders have disclosed that this development has raised the question whether the peace corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over methods ,, means and goals ..


	there are a number of ways this could happen ,, the churchmen pointed out ,, and here is an example :: 

	last month in ghana an american missionary discovered when he came to pay his$ hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled ..
when he protested ,, the hotel owner said :: 

	```` why do you worry ?. ?.
the u. s. government is paying for it ..
the u. s. government pays for all its$ overseas workers '''' ..



missionary explains 
```` i don't* work for the government '''' ,, the american said ..
```` i'm+bem a missionary '''' ..


	the hotel owner shrugged ..
```` same thing '''' ,, he said ..


	and then ,, some churchmen remarked ,, there is a more classical church problem :: 

	can religious agencies use government funds and peace corps personnel in their$ projects and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation of church and state ?. ?.


	r. sargent shriver jr. ,, director of the corps ,, is certain that they can ..
no religious group ,, he declared in an interview ,, will receive peace corps funds unless it forswears all proselytizing on the project it proposes ..
moscow ,, june 18 
 at a gay party in the kremlin for president sukarno of indonesia ,, premier khrushchev pulled out his$ pockets and said ,, beaming :: ```` look ,, he took everything i had '''' !. !.


	mr. khrushchev was jesting in the expansive mood of the successful banker ..
indonesia is one of the twenty under countries of asia ,, africa and latin america that are receiving soviet aid ..


	the soviet union and other members of the communist bloc are rapidly expanding their$ economic ,, technical and military assistance to the uncommitted nations ..


	the communist countries allocated more than $1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year ,, according to western estimates ..
this was the biggest annual outlay since the communist program for the under countries made its$ modest beginning in 1954 ..
in 1960 more than 6,000 communist technicians were present in those countries ..
united nations ,, n. y. ,, june 18 
 a committee of experts has recommended that a country's$ population be considered in the distribution of professional posts at the united nations ..
this was disclosed today by a responsible source amid intensified efforts by the soviet union to gain a greater role in the staff and operation of the united nations ..


	one effect of the proposal ,, which puts a premium on population instead of economic strength ,, as in the past ,, would be to take jobs from european nations and give more to such countries as india ..
india is the most populous united nations member with more than 400,000,000 inhabitants ..


	the new formula for filling staff positions in the secretariat is one of a number of recommendations made by a panel of eight in a long and detailed report ..
the report was completed after nearly eighteen months of work on the question of the organization of the united nations ..



formula is due this week 
the advisory committee on administrative and budgetary questions is expected to receive the report this week ..
the jobs formula is understood to follow these lines :: 
each of the organization's$ ninety members would get two professional posts ,, such as political affairs officer ,, a department head or an economist ,, to start ..




each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people in its$ population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen posts ..




each member with a population above 150,000,000 would get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to an unspecified cut point ..
geneva ,, june 18 
 the three leaders of laos agreed today to begin negotiations tomorrow on forming a coalition government that would unite the war kingdom ..


	the decision was made in zurich by prince boun oum ,, premier of the pro royal government ;. ;.
prince souvanna phouma ,, leader of the nation's$ neutralists and recognized as premier by the communist bloc ,, and prince souphanouvong ,, head of the pro pathet lao forces ..
the latter two are half ..


	their$ joint statement was welcomed by the western delegations who will attend tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen conference on the future of laos ..
an agreement among the princes on a coalition government would ease their$ task ,, diplomats conceded ..
but no one was overly optimistic ..



tactics studied in geneva 
w. averell harriman of the united states ,, malcolm macdonald of britain ,, maurice couve de murville ,, france's$ foreign minister ,, and howard c. green ,, canada's$ minister of external affairs ,, concluded ,, meanwhile ,, a round of consultations here on future tactics in the conference ..
the pace of the talks has slowed with each passing week ..


	princess moune ,, prince souvanna phouma's$ young daughter ,, read the princes'$ statement ..
they had a two luncheon together in ```` an atmosphere of cordial understanding and relaxation '''' ,, she said ..


	the three laotians agreed upon a six agenda for their$ talks ,, which are to last three days ..


	the princess said it was too early to say what would be decided if no agreement was reached after three days ..



to deal with principles 
the meetings in zurich ,, the statement said ,, would deal only with principles that would guide the three factors in their$ search for a coalition government ..

