miami ,, fla. ,, march 17 
 the orioles tonight retained the distinction of being the only winless team among the eighteen major clubs as they dropped their$ sixth straight spring exhibition decision ,, this one to the kansas city athletics by a score of 5 to 3 ..


	indications as late as the top of the sixth were that the birds were to end their$ victory draught as they coasted along with a 3 advantage ..



siebern hits homer 
over the first five frames ,, jack fisher ,, the big righthander who figures to be in the middle of oriole plans for a drive on the 1961 american league pennant ,, held the a's scoreless while yielding three scattered hits ..


	then dick hyde ,, submarine hurler ,, entered the contest and only five batters needed to face him before there existed a 33 deadlock ..


	a two homer by norm siebern and a solo blast by bill tuttle tied the game ,, and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the athletics their$ fifth victory in eight starts ..



house throws wild 
with one down in the eighth ,, marv throneberry drew a walk and stole second as hyde fanned tuttle ..
catcher frank house's$ throw in an effort to nab throneberry was wide and in the dirt ..


	then heywood sullivan ,, kansas city catcher ,, singled up the middle and throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run ..


	rookie southpaw george stepanovich relieved hyde at the start of the ninth and gave up the a's fifth tally on a walk to second baseman dick howser ,, a wild pitch ,, and frank cipriani's$ single under shortstop jerry adair's$ glove into center ..


	the orioles once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion ,, gathering only seven blows off the offerings of three kansas city pitchers ..
three were doubles ,, brooks robinson getting a pair and marv breeding one ..



hartman impressive 
bill kunkel ,, bob hartman and ed keegan did the mound chores for the club down from west palm beach to play the game before 767 paying customers in miami stadium ..


	the birds got five hits and all three of their$ runs off kunkel before hartman took over in the top of the fourth ..
hartman ,, purchased by the a's from the milwaukee braves last fall ,, allowed no hits in his$ scoreless three appearance ,, and merited the triumph ..


	keegan ,, a 63 158 ,, gave up the orioles'$ last two safeties over the final three frames ,, escaping a load of trouble in the ninth when the birds threatened but failed to tally ..



robinson doubles again 
in the ninth ,, robinson led off with his$ second double of the night ,, a blast off the fence 375 feet deep into left ..


	whitey herzog ,, performing in right as the orioles fielded possibly their$ strongest team of the spring ,, worked keegan for a base on balls ..


	then three consecutive pinch failed to produce ..


	pete ward was sent in for house and ,, after failing in a bunt attempt ,, popped to howser on the grass back of short ..


	john powell ,, batting for adair ,, fanned after fouling off two 22 pitches ,, and buddy barker ,, up for stepanovich ,, bounced out sharply to jerry lumpe at second to end the 227 contest ..


	the orioles got a run in the first inning when breeding ,, along with robinson ,, the two birds who got a pair of hits ,, doubled to right center ,, moved to third on russ snyder's$ single to right and crossed on kunkel's$ wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate ..


	the flock added a pair of tallies in the third on three straight hits after two were out ..


	jackie brandt singled deep into the hole at short to start the rally ..



lumpe errs 
jim gentile bounced a hard shot off kunkel's$ glove and beat it out for a single ,, and when lumpe grabbed the ball and threw it over first baseman throneberry's$ head brandt took third and gentile second on the error ..


	then robinson slammed a long double to left center to score both runners ..
when robinson tried to stretch his$ blow into a triple ,, he was cut down in a close play at third ,, tuttle to andy carey ..


	the detailed rundown on the kansas city scoring in the sixth went like this :: 

	lumpe worked a walk as the first batter to face hyde and romped around as siebern blasted hyde's$ next toss 415 feet over the scoreboard in right center ..



carey singles 
carey singled on a slow ball to short which robinson cut across to field and threw wide to first ..
it was ruled a difficult chance and a hit ..


	then throneberry rapped into a fast double play ..
breeding to adair to gentile ,, setting up tuttle's$ 390 homer over the wall in left center ..


	if the orioles are to break their$ losing streak within the next two days ,, it will have to be at the expense of the american league champion new york yankees ,, who come in here tomorrow for a night game and a single test sunday afternoon ..
miami ,, fla. ,, march 17 
 the flavor of baltimore's$ florida grapefruit league news ripened considerably late today when the orioles were advised that ron hansen has fulfilled his$ obligations under the army's$ military training program and is ready for belated spring training ..


	hansen ,, who slugged the 1960 oriole high of 22 homers and drove in 86 runs on a 


freshman average ,, completes the birds'$ spring squad at 49 players ..


	the big ,, 22 shortstop ,, the 1960 american league ```` rookie '''' ,, flew here late this afternoon from baltimore ,, signed his$ contract for an estimated $15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's$ 53 loss to kansas city  the winless birds'$ sixth setback in a row ..



15 pounds lighter 
the 6 3 hansen checked in close to 200 pounds ,, 15 pounds lighter than his$ reporting weight last spring ..
he hopes to melt off an additional eight pounds before the flock breaks camp three weeks hence ..


	when he was inducted into the army at fort knox ,, ky. ,, hansen's$ weight had dropped to 180  ```` too light for me to be at my$ best '''' he said ..


	```` i feel good physically '''' ,, hansen added ,, ```` but i think i'll+md move better carrying a little less weight than i'm+bem carrying now '''' ..



seeks ```` improved fielding '''' 
the rangy ,, albany (( cal. )) native ,, a surprise slugging sensation for the flock last year as well as a defensive whiz ,, set ```` improved fielding '''' as his$ 1961 goal ..


	```` i think i can do a better job with the glove ,, now that i know the hitters around the league a little better '''' ,, he said ..


	hansen will engage in his$ first workout at miami stadium prior to the opening tomorrow night of a two weekend series with the new york yankees ..


	skinny brown and hoyt wilhelm ,, the flock's$ veteran knuckleball specialists ,, are slated to oppose the american league champions in tomorrow's$ 8 p.m. contest ..



duren ,, sheldon on hill 
ryne duren and roland sheldon ,, a rookie righthander who posted a 151 record last year for the yanks'$ auburn (( n.y. )) farm club of the class new york league ,, are the probable rival pitchers ..


	twenty milt pappas and jerry walker ,, 22 ,, are scheduled to share the oriole mound chores against the bombers'$ art ditmar in sunday's$ 2 p.m. encounter ..


	ralph houk ,, successor to casey stengel at the yankee helm ,, plans to bring the entire new york squad here from st. petersburg ,, including joe dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated for both weekend games ..
the famed yankee clipper ,, now retired ,, has been assisting as a batting coach ..



squad cut near 
pitcher steve barber joined the club one week ago after completing his$ hitch under the army's$ accelerated wintertime military course ,, also at fort knox ,, ky. ..
the 22 southpaw enlisted earlier last fall than did hansen ..


	baltimore's$ bulky spring contingent now gradually will be reduced as manager paul richards and his$ coaches seek to trim it down to a more streamlined and workable unit ..




```` take a ride on this one '''' ,, brooks robinson greeted hansen as the bird third sacker grabbed a bat ,, headed for the plate and bounced a third two double off the left wall tonight ..


	it was the first of two doubles by robinson ,, who was in a mood to celebrate ..


	just before game time ,, robinson's$ pretty wife ,, connie informed him that an addition to the family can be expected late next summer ..


	unfortunately ,, brooks's$ teammates were not* in such festive mood as the orioles expired before the seven pitching of three kansas city rookie hurlers ..




hansen arrived just before nightfall ,, two hours late ,, in company with lee macphail ;. ;.
j. a. w. iglehart ,, chairman of the oriole board of directors ,, and public relations director jack dunn ..


	their$ flight was delayed ,, dunn said ,, when a boarding ramp inflicted some minor damage to the wing of the plane ..




ex clint courtney ,, now catching for the a's is all for the american league's$ 1961 expansion to the west coast ..


	```` but they shouldda+hv brought in tokyo ,, too '''' ,, added old scrapiron ..
```` then we'd+md really have someplace to go '''' ..
bowie ,, md. ,, march 17 
 gaining her$ second straight victory ,, norman b. ,, small ,, jr.'s$ garden fresh ,, a 3 filly ,, downed promising colts in the $4,500 st. patrick's$ day purse ,, featured seventh race here today ,, and paid $7.20 straight ..


	toying with her$ field in the early stages ,, garden fresh was asked for top speed only in the stretch by jockey philip grimm and won by a length and a half in 1.24 35 for the 7 furlongs ..



8,280 attend races 
richard m. forbes's$ paget ,, which had what seemed to be a substantial lead in the early stages ,, tired rapidly nearing the wire and was able to save place money only a head in front of glen t. hallowell's$ milties miss ..


	a bright sun and brisk wind had the track in a fast condition for the first time this week and 8,280 st. patty day celebrants bet $842,617 on the well program ..


	prior to the featured race ,, the stewards announced that apprentice james p. verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and crossing the field sharply in two races on wednesday ..



culmone gets first win 
garden fresh ,, the result of a mating of better self and rosy fingered ,, seems to improve with each start and appeared to win the st. patrick's$ day purse with some speed in reserve ..
she was moving up to the allowance department after winning a $10,000 claiming event ..
cleveland ,, march 17 (( ap )) 
 george kerr ,, the swift jamaican ,, set a meet record in the 600 run in the knights of columbus track meet tonight ,, beating purdue's$ dave mills in a hot duel in 1.10.1 ..


	kerr ,, who set the world record earlier this month in new york with a clocking of 1.09.3 ,, wiped out mills's$ early pace and beat the young big 10 quarter king by 5 yards ..
both were under the meet mark of 1.10.8 set in 1950 by mal whitfield ..


	mills shot out in front and kept the lead through two thirds of the race ..
then kerr ,, a graduate student from illinois ,, moved past him on a straightaway and held off mills's$ challenge on the final turn ..
mills was timed in 1.10.4 ..


	the crowd at the twenty annual k. of c. games ,, final indoor meet of the season ,, got a thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender ,, bespectacled woman broke the one world record in the half run ..


	mrs. grace butcher ,, of nearby chardon ,, a 27 housewife who has two children ,, finished in 2.21.6 ..
she snapped five tenths of a second off the mark set by helen shipley ,, of wellsley college ,, in the national a.a.u. meet in columbus ,, ohio ..
san francisco ,, march 17 (( ap )) 
 bobby waters of sylvania ,, ga. ,, relief quarterback for the san francisco 49ers of the national football league ,, will undergo a knee operation tomorrow at franklin hospital here ..


	waters injured his$ left knee in the last game of the 1960 season ..
while working out in sylvania a swelling developed in the knee and he came here to consult the team physician ..
st. petersburg ,, fla. ,, march 17 (( ap )) 
 two errors by new york yankee shortstop tony kubek in the eleventh inning donated four unearned runs and a 52 victory to the chicago white sox today ..

