london ,, feb. 9 
 vital secrets of britain's$ first atomic submarine ,, the dreadnought ,, and ,, by implication ,, of the entire united states navy's$ still nuclear sub fleet ,, were stolen by a london soviet spy ring ,, secret service agents testified today ..


	the dreadnought was built on designs supplied by the united states in 1959 and was launched last year ..
it is a killer sub  that is ,, a hunter of enemy subs ..
it has a hull patterned on that of the united states navy's$ nautilus ,, the world's$ first atomic submarine ..
its$ power unit ,, however ,, was derived from the reactor of the more modern american nuclear submarine skipjack ..



five held for trial 
the announcement that the secrets of the dreadnought had been stolen was made in bow st. police court here at the end of a three day hearing ..
a full trial was ordered for :: 

	two british civil servants ,, miss ethel gee ,, 46 ,, and her$ newly devoted friend ,, harry houghton ,, 55 ,, and divorced ..
they are accused of whisking secrets out of naval strongrooms over which they kept guard ..


	gordon a. lonsdale ,, 37 ,, a mystery man presumed to be russian although he carries a canadian passport ..
when arrested ,, he had the submarine secrets on a roll of candid camera film as well as anti secrets in christmas gift wrapping ,, it was testified ..



flashed to moscow 
a shadowy couple who call themselves peter kroger ,, bookseller ,, and wife ,, joyce ..


	(( in washington ,, the federal bureau of investigation identified the krogers as morris and lola cohen ,, an american couple formerly of new york city )) 

	..
in their$ suburban cottage the crown charges ,, the krogers received secrets from the mystery man ,, usually on the first saturday evening of each month ,, and spent much of the week getting the secrets off to moscow ,, either on a powerful transmitter buried under the kitchen floor or as dots posted over period marks in used books ..
each dot on magnification resumed its$ original condition as a drawing ,, a printed page ,, or a manuscript ..


	all five pleaded innocent ..
only miss gee asked for bail ..
her$ young british lawyer ,, james dunlop ,, pleaded that she was sorely needed at her$ portland home by her$ widowed mother ,, 80 ,, her$ maiden aunt ,, also 80 and bedridden for 20 years ,, and her$ uncle ,, 76 ,, who once ran a candy shop ..



refuses to grant bail 
```` i am not* prepared to grant bail to any of them '''' ,, said the magistrate ,, k.j.p. baraclough ..


	the trial will be held ,, probably the first week of march ,, in the famous old bailey central criminal court where klaus fuchs ,, the naturalized british german born scientist who succeeded in giving american and british atomic bomb secrets to russia and thereby changed world history during the 1950s ,, was sentenced to 14 years in prison ..


	fourteen years is the maximum penalty now faced by the new five ,, who may have altered history in the 1960s ..
fuchs ,, after nine and a half years ,, was released ,, being given time off for good behavior ..
he promptly went to communist east germany ..


	the magistrate tonight refused to return to the five $29,000 in american and british currency ,, mostly $20 bills ,, and in british government bonds and stocks ..


	```` this is russian money '''' ,, said mervin griffith for the attorney general's$ office ..
he asserted that the krogers were the bankers for moscow ,, lonsdale the red paymaster ,, and the two civil servants the recipients for selling their$ country's$ secrets ..



```` of highest value '''' 
the fact that secrets of the dreadnought ,, and thereby of the american undersea fleet ,, were involved in the spy case had been hinted at earlier ..


	but just before luncheon today the fact was announced grimly by the british navy's$ chief adviser to the cabinet on underwater warfare ,, capt. george symonds ..
he said that drawings of the dreadnought and printed details about the ship were found reproduced in an undeveloped roll of film taken from lonsdale when he was arrested with the two civil servants outside the old vic theater saturday afternoon ,, jan. 7 ..


	the information ,, he said ,, would have been of the highest value to a potential enemy ..



court cleared 
just how many sub secrets were being handed over when the ring ,, watched for six months ,, was broken remained untold ..


	the british defending lawyers ,, who today increased from three to four ,, demanded to know if they could make the information involved seem of little value to a jury ,, the chances of their$ clients would improve ..
so in the name of justice the magistrate cleared the court of all except officials to allow the captain to elaborate for almost an hour ..


	almost any information about the dreadnought would also reveal secrets about the american underwater fleet ..
britain began designing the ship in 1956 but got nowhere until the american government decided to end a ban on sharing military secrets with britain that had been imposed after fuchs blabbed ..
the united states offered to supply a complete set of propelling equipment like that used in the skipjack ..


	with the machinery went a complete design for the hull ..


	the skipjack was a second generation atomic sub ,, much advanced on the nautilus and the other four which preceded it ..



navy's$ future involved 
```` much of the navy's$ future depends upon her '''' ,, an american naval announcement said on the skipjack's$ first arrival in british waters in august ,, 1959 ,, for exhibition to selected high officers at portland underwater research station ..
it was there that the two accused civil servants were at work ..


	```` her$ basic hull form (( a teardrop )) and her$ nuclear power plant will be used for almost all new submarines ,, including the potent polaris missile submarines '''' ,, the statement went on ..


	the atom reactor ,, water cooled ,, was the result of almost a decade of research at the naval reactors branch of the atomic energy commission and westinghouse electric corp. ..
thru development ,, the reactor and its$ steam turbines had been reduced greatly in size ,, and also in complexity ,, allowing a single propeller to be used ,, the navy said ..


	the hull was also a result of almost a decade of work ..
it was first tried out on a conventional submarine ,, the albacore ,, in 1954 ..


	the skipjack became the fastest submarine ever built ..
reputedly it could outrun ,, underwater ,, the fastest destroyers ..
it could ,, reputedly ,, go 70,000 miles without refueling and stay down more than a month ..


	it was of the hunter type ,, designed to seek out ships and other submarines with its$ most advanced gear and destroy them with torpedoes ..


	the navy captain disclosed also that a list of questions found in miss gee's$ purse would ,, if completed and handed back ,, have given the kremlin a complete picture ```` of our$ current anti effort and would have shown what we are doing in research and development for the future '''' ..



interested in detector 
the spy ring also was particularly interested in asdic ,, the underwater equipment for detecting submarines ,, it was testified ..
range was a vital detail ..
designs of parts were sought ..


	six radiomen told how ,, twice on two days after the ring was nabbed ,, a transmitter near moscow was heard calling ,, using signals ,, times and wavelengths specified on codes found hidden in cigaret lighters in lonsdale's$ apartment and the krogers'$ house and also fastened to the transmitter lid ..
oddly ,, the calls were still heard 11 days after the five were arrested ..


	the charge that the federal indictment of three chicago narcotics detail detectives ```` is the product of rumor ,, combined with malice ,, and individual enmity '''' on the part of the federal narcotics unit here was made yesterday in their$ conspiracy trial before judge joseph sam perry in federal district court ..


	the three  miles j. cooperman ,, sheldon teller ,, and richard austin  and eight other defendants are charged in six indictments with conspiracy to violate federal narcotic laws ..


	in his$ opening statement to a jury of eight women and four men ,, bernard h. sokol ,, attorney for the detectives ,, said that evidence would show that his$ clients were ```` entirely innocent '''' ..



'' had to know peddlers '' 
```` when they became members of the city police narcotics unit '''' ,, sokol said ,, ```` they were told they would have to get to know certain areas of chicago in which narcotics were sold and they would have to get to know people in the narcotics racket ..
they ,, on occasion ,, posed as addicts and peddlers '''' ..


	although federal and city narcotic agents sometimes worked together ,, sokol continued ,, rivalries developed when they were ```` aiming at the same criminals '''' ..
this ,, he added ,, brought about ```` petty jealousies '''' and ```` petty personal grievances '''' ..


	```` in the same five year period that the united states says they (( the detectives )) were engaged in this conspiracy '''' ,, sokol continued ,, ```` these three young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special compensations ,, and were nominated for the lambert tree award and the mayor's$ medal '''' ..



no comments by u.s. 
in opening ,, d. arthur connelly ,, assistant united states attorney ,, read the indictment ,, but made no comments ..
attorneys for the eight other defendants said only that there was no proof of their$ clients'$ guilt ..


	cooperman and teller are accused of selling $4,700 worth of heroin to a convicted narcotics peddler ,, otis sears ,, 45 ,, of 6934 indiana av. ..
among other acts ,, teller and austin are accused of paying $800 to sears ..


	the first witness ,, moses winston mardis ,, 5835 michigan av. ,, a real estate agent and former bail bondsman ,, took the stand after opening statements had been made ..
but court adjourned after he testified he introduced james white and jeremiah hope pullings ,, two of the defendants ,, and also introduced pullings to jessy maroy ,, a man mentioned in the indictment but not* indicted ..


	buaford robinson ,, 23 ,, of 7026 stewart av. ,, a cta bus driver ,, was slugged and robbed last night by a group of youths at 51st street and south park way ..
robinson was treated at a physician's$ office for a cut over his$ left eyebrow and a possible sprained knee ..
his$ losses included his$ money bag ,, containing $40 to $50 and his$ $214 paycheck ..


	robinson told policemen james jones and morgan lloyd of the wabash avenue district that 10 youths boarded his$ south bound express bus in front of dunbar vocational high school ,, 30th street and south park way ,, and began ```` skylarking '''' ..


	when 51st street was reached ,, robinson related ,, he stopped the bus and told the youths he was going to call the cta supervisor ..
as he left the bus with his$ money bag ,, robinson added ,, the largest youth accosted him ,, a quarrel ensued ,, and the youth knocked him down ..
then the youths fled with his$ money ..


	mrs. blanche dunkel ,, 60 ,, who has spent 25 years in the dwight reformatory for women for the murder in 1935 of her$ son ,, ervin lang ,, then 28 ,, appealed for a parole at a hearing yesterday before two illinois pardon and parole board members ,, john m. bookwalter and joseph carpentier ..
she had been sentenced to 180 years in prison ,, but former gov. stratton commuted her$ term to 75 years ,, making her$ eligible for parole ,, as one of his$ last acts in office ..


	mrs. dunkel admitted the slaying and said that the son became her$ lover after the death of her$ daughter in 1934 ..
it was when he attempted to end the relationship that the murder took place ..


	the son of a wealthy evanston executive was fined $100 yesterday and forbidden to drive for 60 days for leading an evanston policeman on a high speed chase over icy evanston and wilmette streets jan. 20 ..


	the defendant ,, william l. stickney 3 ,, 23 ,, of 3211 park pl. ,, evanston ,, who pleaded guilty to reckless driving ,, also was ordered by judge james corcoran to attend the evanston traffic school each tuesday night for one month ..


	stickney is a salesman for plee ,, inc. ,, 2544 green bay rd. ,, evanston ,, a food brokerage and grocery chain firm ,, of which his$ father ,, william l. jr. ,, is president ..


	patrolman james f. simms said he started in pursuit when he saw young stickney speeding north in stewart avenue at central street ..


	at jenks street ,, simms said ,, the car skidded completely around ,, just missed two parked cars ,, and sped east in jenks ..


	the car spun around again ,, simms said ,, before stickney could turn north in prairie avenue ,, and then violated two stop lights as he traveled north into wilmette in prairie ..

