

	after being closed for seven months ,, the garden of the gods club will have its$ gala summer opening saturday ,, june 3 ..


	music for dancing will be furnished by allen uhles and his$ orchestra ,, who will play each saturday during june ..


	members and guests will be in for an added surprise with the new wing containing 40 rooms and suites ,, each with its$ own private patio ..


	gene marshall ,, genial manager of the club ,, has announced that the garden of the gods will open to members thursday ,, june 1 ..


	beginning july 4 ,, there will be an orchestra playing nightly except sunday and monday for the summer season ..


	mrs. j. edward hackstaff and mrs. paul luette are planning a luncheon next week in honor of mrs. j. clinton bowman ,, who celebrates her$ birthday on tuesday ..


	mr. and mrs. jerry chase announce the birth of a daughter ,, sheila ,, on wednesday in mercy hospital ..


	grandparents are mr. and mrs. robert l. chase and mr. and mrs. guy mullenax of kittredge ..


	mrs. chase is the former miss mary mullenax ..



back to w. coast 
mrs. mcintosh buell will leave sunday to return to her$ home in santa barbara ,, calif. ,, after spending a week in her$ polo grounds home ..


	mrs. john c. vroman jr. of manzanola is spending several days in her$ sherman plaza apartment ..


	mr. and mrs. merrill shoup have returned to their$ home in colorado springs after spending a few days at the brown palace hotel ..


	brig. gen. and mrs. robert f. mcdermott will entertain at a black tie dinner wednesday ,, may 3 ,, in the officers'$ club at the air force academy ..



cocktail party 
mr. and mrs. piero de luise will honor italian consul and mrs. emilio bassi at a cocktail party tuesday ,, may 2 ,, from 6 to 8 p.m. in their$ home ..
the bassis are leaving soon for their$ new post ..


	there will be a stag dinner friday evening at the denver country club which will precede the opening of the 1961 golf season ..


	cocktails will be served from 6 to 7 p.m. ,, with dinner at 7 and entertainment in the main dining room immediately following ..


	miss betsy parker was one of the speakers on the panel of the eastern women's$ liberal arts college panel on wednesday evening in the security life bldg. ..


	guests were juniors in the public high schools ..



fashion show 
the committee for the annual central city fashion show has been announced by mrs. d. w. moore ,, chairman ..


	the event ,, staged yearly by neusteters ,, will be held in the opera house wednesday ,, aug. 16 ..
it will be preceded by luncheon in the teter house ..


	mrs. roger mead is head of the luncheon table decorations ..
mrs. stanley wright is ticket chairman and mrs. theodore pate is in charge of publicity ..


	members of the committee include mrs. milton bernet ,, mrs. j. clinton bowman ,, mrs. rollie w. bradford ,, mrs. samuel butler jr. ,, mrs. donald carr campbell ,, mrs. douglas carruthers ,, mrs. john c. davis 3 ,, ,, mrs. cris dobbins ,, mrs. william e. glass ,, mrs. alfred hicks 2 ,, ,, mrs. donald magarrell ,, mrs. willett moore ,, mrs. myron neusteter ,, mrs. richard gibson smith ,, mrs. james s. sudier 2 ,, and mrs. thomas welborn ..


	the first committee meeting will be held on may 19 ..


	mr. and mrs. andrew s. kelsey of washington ,, d.c. ,, announce the birth of a daughter ,, kira ann kelsey ,, on monday in washington ,, d.c. ..


	grandparents are mr. and mrs. r.l. rickenbaugh and mr. and mrs. e.o. kelsey of scarsdale ,, n.y. ..


	mrs. kelsey is the former miss ann rickenbaugh ..


	a cheery smile ,, a compassionate interest in others and a practical down approach ..


	those qualities make esther marr a popular asset at the salvation army's$ social center at 1200 larimer st. ..


	the pert ,, gray woman who came to denver three years ago from buffalo ,, n.y. ,, is a ```` civilian '''' with the army ..


	her$ position covers a number of daily tasks common to any social director ..
the job also covers a number of other items ..


	```` mom '''' marr ,, as the more than 80 men at the center call her ,, is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society ..


	her$ day starts early ,, but no matter how many pressing letters there are to be written (( and during may ,, which is national salvation army week ,, there are plenty )) ,, schedules to be made or problems to be solved ,, mrs. marr's$ office is always open and the welcome mat is out ..


	mrs. marr is the first contact a skid row figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up ..


	she sees that there is a cup of steaming hot coffee awaiting him and the two chat informally as she presents the rules of the center and explains procedures ..


	```` usually at this point a man is withdrawn from society and one of my$ jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle with his$ fellow men '''' ,, mrs. marr explained ..


	the denverite has worked out an entire program to achieve this using the facilities of the center ..


	```` and i bum tickets to everything i can '''' ,, she said ..
```` i've+hv become the greatest beggar in the world '''' ..


	in addition to the tickets to the movies ,, sporting events and concerts ,, mrs. marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their$ system ..


	mrs. marr also has a number of parolees to ```` mother '''' ,, watching to see that they do not* break their$ parole and that they also learn to readjust to society ..


	by mid ,, millions of americans will take to the road on vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely land ..


	in another four weeks ,, with schools closed across the nation ,, the great all summer safari will be under way ..
by july 1 ,, six weeks from now ,, motel all over the nation will ,, by 6 p.m. ,, be switching on that bleak  to motorists  sign ,, ```` no vacancy '''' ..


	no matter how many americans go abroad in summer ,, probably a hundred times as many gas up the family car ,, throw suitcases ,, kids and comic books in the back seat ,, and head for home ..
and where is ```` home '''' ,, that magic place of the heart ?. ?.


	ah ,, that is simple ..
home is where a man was born ,, reared ,, went to school and ,, most particularly ,, where grandma is ..
that is where we turn in the good old summertime ..


	the land lies ready for the coming onslaught ..
my$ husband and i ,, a month ahead of the rush ,, have just finished a 7 motor journey of 2809 miles from tucson ,, ariz. ,, to new york city :: 


set for influx 
i can testify that motels ,, service and comfort stations (( they go together like scots and heather )) ,, dog wagons ,, roadside restaurants ,, souvenir stands and snake farms are braced and waiting ..


	i hope it can be said without boasting that no other nation offers its$ vacationing motorists such variety and beauty of scene ,, such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and such decent ,, far over accommodations ..


	maybe motel isn't* the nation's$ biggest industry ,, but it certainly looks that way from the highway ..


	there are motels for all purposes and all tastes ..
there are even motels for local weather peculiarities in shamrock ,, tex. ,, as i discovered ..
there the royal motel advertises ```` all facilities ,, vented heat ,, air conditioned ,, carpeted ,, free tv ,, storm cellar '''' ..



many with pools 
innumerable motels from tucson to new york boast swimming pools (( ```` swim at your$ own risk '''' is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools )) ..
some even boast two pools ,, one for adults and one for children ..
but the royal motel in shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort and security of a storm cellar ..


	motorists like myself who can remember the old ```` tourists accommodated '''' signs on farm houses and village homes before world war 2 ,, can only marvel at the great size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast motel business ..



all for $14 !. !.

at the boxwood motel in winchester ,, va. ,, we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite ,, an elegant affair with wall carpeting ,, gold and white furniture ,, pink satin brocade chairs ,, 24 tv and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels ..
all for $14 ..


	that made up for the ```` best '''' motel in norman ,, okla. ,, where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when we found ants in the pressed furniture ..


	oxnard ,, calif. ,, will be the home of the rev. robert d. howard and his$ bride ,, the former miss judith ellen gay ,, who were married saturday at the munger place methodist church ..


	parents of the bride are mr. and mrs. ferris m. gay ,, 7034 coronado ..
the bridegroom is the son of mrs. james baines of los angeles ,, calif. ,, and carl e. howard of santa monica ,, calif. ..
he is a graduate of ucla and perkins school of theology ,, aj ..


	dr. w. b. i. martin officiated ,, and the bride was given in marriage by her$ father ..
honor attendants for the couple were miss sandra branum and warren v. mcroberts ..


	the couple will honeymoon in sequoia national park ,, calif. ..


	miss joan frances baker ,, a graduate of smu ,, was married saturday to elvis leonard mason ,, an honor graduate of lamar state college of technology ,, in the chapel of the first presbyterian church of houston ..


	the bride ,, daughter of rhodes semmes baker jr. of houston and the late mrs. baker ,, was president of kappa kappa gamma and a member of mortar board at aj ..
her$ husband ,, who is the son of alton john mason of shreveport ,, la. ,, and the late mrs. henry cater parmer ,, was president of alpha tau omega and a member of delta sigma pi at lamar tech ,, and did graduate work at rhodes university in grahamstown ,, south africa ,, on a rotary fellowship ..


	the rev. richard freeman of texas city officiated and charles pabor and mrs. marvin hand presented music ..
the bride was given in marriage by her$ father ..


	she wore a court gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques ..
her$ veil was caught to a crown ,, and she carried gardenias and stephanotis ..


	miss mary ross of baird was maid of honor ,, and bridesmaids were miss pat dawson of austin ,, mrs. howard m. dean of hinsdale ,, ill. ,, and mrs. james a. reeder of shreveport ,, la. ..


	cecil mason of hartford ,, conn. ,, was best man for his$ brother ,, and groomsmen were rhodes s. baker 3 ,, of houston ,, dr. james carter of houston and conrad mceachern of new orleans ,, la. ..
lee jackson and ken smith ,, both of houston ,, and alfred neumann of beaumont seated guests ..


	after a reception at the mayfair ,, the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to new orleans ,, la. ..
they will live in corpus christi ..


	miss shirley joan meredith ,, a former student of north texas state university ,, was married saturday to larry w. mills ,, who has attended arlington state college ..
they will live at 2705 fitzhugh after a wedding trip to corpus christi ..


	parents of the couple are ray meredith of denton and the late mrs. meredith and mrs. hardy p. mills of floresville and the late mr. mills ..


	the rev. melvin carter officiated at the ceremony in slaughter chapel of the first baptist church ..
dan beam presented music and the bride was given in marriage by her$ father ..


	she wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline ..
her$ veil was caught to a pearl headdress ,, and she carried stephanotis and orchids ..


	miss glenda kay meredith of denton was her$ sister's$ maid of honor ,, and vernon lewelleyn of san angelo was best man ..
robert lovelace and cedric burgher jr. seated guests ..
a reception was held at the church ..


	the first christian church of pampa was the setting for the wedding last sunday of miss marcile marie glison and thomas earl loving jr. ,, who will live at 8861 gaston after a wedding trip to new orleans ,, la. 

	the bride ,, daughter of mr. and mrs. charles ervin glison of pampa ,, has attended texas woman's$ university and will continue her studies at aj ..

