

	sizzling temperatures and hot summer pavements are anything but kind to the feet ..
that is why it is important to invest in comfortable ,, airy types of shoes ..


	there are many soft and light shoe leathers available ..
many styles have perforations and an almost weightlessness achieved via unlined leathers ..
softness is found in crushed textures ..


	styles run the gamut from slender and tapered with elongated toes to a newer squared toe shape ..
heels place emphasis on the long legged silhouette ..
wine glass heels are to be found in both high and semi ..
stacked heels are also popular on dressy or tailored shoes ..
just the barest suggestion of a heel is found on teenage pumps ..



coolest shade 
while white is the coolest summer shade ,, there are lots of pastel hues along with tintable fabrics that will blend with any wardrobe color ..


	in the tintable group are high and little heels ,, squared and oval throats ,, and shantung textures ..


	don't* overlook the straws this year ..
they come in crisp basket weaves in natural honey hues ,, along with lacey open weaves with a lustre finish in natural ,, white ,, black and a whole range of colors ..
in the casual field straws feature wedge heels of cork or carved wood in a variety of styles ..
for added comfort some of the italian designed sandals have foam padded cushioning ..


	the citrus tones popular in clothing are also to be found afoot ..
orange and lemon are considered important as are such pastels as blue and lilac ..
in a brighter nautical vein is ille de france blue ..
contrast trim provides other touches of color ..
spectators in white crush textures dip toe and heel in smooth black ,, navy and taffy tan ..



designed for ease 
designed for summer comfort are the shoes illustrated ..
at the left is a pair of dressy straw pumps in a light ,, but crisp texture ..
in a lacey open weave shoes have a luster finish ,, braided collar and bow highlight on the squared throat ..
at right is a casual style in a crushed unlined white leather ..
flats have a scalloped throat ..


	an electric toothbrush (( broxodent )) may soon take its$ place next to the electric razor in the american bathroom ..
the brush moves up and down and is small enough to clean every dental surface ,, including the back of the teeth ..
in addition ,, the motor has the seal of approval of the underwriters laboratories ,, which means it is safe ..


	the unit consists of a small motor that goes on as soon as it is plugged in ..
the speed is controlled by pressing on the two brake buttons located where the index finger and thumb are placed when holding the motor ..
the brushes can be cleaned and sterilized by boiling and are detachable so that every member of the family can have his$ own ..


	most of us brush our$ teeth by hand ..
the same can be said of shaving yet the electric razor has proved useful to many men ..


	the electric toothbrush moves in a vertical direction ,, the way dentists recommend ..
in addition ,, it is small enough to get into crevices ,, jacket and crown margins ,, malposed anteriors ,, and the back teeth ..
the bristles are soft enough to massage the gums and not* scratch the enamel ..


	it is conceivable that broxodent could do a better job than ordinary brushing ,, especially in those who do not* brush their$ teeth properly ..
several dentists and patients with special dental problems have experimented with the device ..
the results were good although they are difficult to compare with hand brushing ,, particularly when the individual knows how to brush his$ teeth properly ..
the electric gadget is most helpful when there are many crowned teeth and in individuals who are elderly ,, bedfast with a chronic disease ,, or are handicapped by disorders such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy ..


	but for many of us ,, it will prove an enjoyable luxury ..
it is not* as convenient as the old type toothbrush and the paste tends to shimmy off the bristles ..
since the apparatus is new ,, it requires experimentation and changes in technique ..



turn over 
writes :: does numbness in the left hand at night ,, which awakens the person ,, indicate brain tumor ?. ?.
reply :: 
no ..
this is a common symptom and the cause usually is pressure on the nerve leading to the affected hand ..
the pressure may come from muscles ,, tendons ,, or bones anywhere from the neck to the hand ..



steam baths 
writes :: do steam baths have any health value ?. ?.
reply :: 
no ,, other than cleaning out the pores and making the sweat glands work harder ..
an ordinary hot bath or shower will do the same ..



sewing brings numbness 
writes :: what makes my$ hands numb when sewing ?. ?.
reply :: 
there are many possibilities ,, including poor circulation ,, a variety of neurological conditions ,, and functional disorders ..
this manifestation may be an early sign of multiple sclerosis or the beginning of sewer's$ cramp ..



brace for sciatica 
writes :: does a brace help in sciatica ?. ?.
reply :: 
a back brace might help ,, depending upon the cause of sciatica ..



cholesterol and thyroid 
writes :: does the cholesterol go down when most of the thyroid gland is removed ?. ?.
reply :: 
no ..
it usually goes up ..
the cholesterol level in the blood is influenced by the glands of the body ..
it is low when the thyroid is overactive and high when the gland is sluggish ..
the latter is likely to occur when the thyroid is removed ..


	the gap between the bookshelf and the record cabinet grows smaller with each new recording catalogue ..


	there's+bez more reading and instruction to be heard on discs than ever before ,, although the spoken rather than the sung word is as old as thomas alva edison's$ first experiment in recorded sound ..
edison could hardly have guessed ,, however ,, that sophocles would one day appear in stereo ..


	if the record buyer's$ tastes are somewhat eclectic or even the slightest bit esoteric ,, he will find them satisfied on educational records ..
and he will avoid eye in the process ..


	everything from poetry to phonetics ,, history to histrionics ,, philosophy to party games has been adapted to the turntable ..


	for sheer ambition ,, take the decca series titled modestly ```` wisdom '''' ..
volumes one and two ,, selected from the sound tracks of a television series ,, contain ```` conversations with the elder wise men of our$ day '''' ..


	these sages include poet carl sandburg ,, statesman jawaharlal nehru and sculptor jacques lipchitz ,, in volume one ,, and playwright sean o'casey ,, david ben ,, philosopher bertrand russell and the late frank lloyd wright in the second set ..
hugh downs is heard interviewing wright ,, for an added prestige fillip ..


	there's+bez more specialization and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by dover publications ..
dover ```` publishes '''' what the company calls ```` listen and learn '''' productions designed to teach foreign languages ..
previous presentations have been on french ,, spanish ,, russian ,, italian ,, german and japanese ..


	but the firm has recognized the tight dollar and the tourist's$ desire to visit the ```` smaller ,, less and relatively inexpensive countries '''' ,, and is now prepared to teach modern greek and portuguese through recordings ..
the respective vocabularies ```` essential for travel '''' are available in separate albums ..


	thanks to spoken arts records ,, history buffs may hear lincoln's$ ```` most memorable speeches and letters '''' in a two set ,, interpreted by lincoln authority and lecturer roy p. basler ..
as a contemporary bonus ,, the set includes carl sandburg's$ address at a joint session of congress ,, delivered on lincoln's$ birthday two years ago ..


	for those who ```` like poetry but never get around to reading it '''' ,, the library of congress makes it possible for poets to be heard reading their$ own work ..
the program was instituted in 1940 ,, and releases are available only from the recording laboratory of the library of congress ,, washington 25 ,, d.c. ..
a catalogue is available on request ..


	newest on the list are john ciardi ,, w. d. snodgrass ,, i. a. richards ,, oscar williams ,, robert hillyer ,, john hall wheelock ,, stephen vincent benet ,, edwin muir ,, john peal bishop and maxwell bodenheim ..
two poets are paired on each record ,, in the order given above ..


	decca is not* the only large commercial company to impart instruction ..
rca victor has an ambitious and useful project in a stereo series called ```` adventures in music '''' ,, which is an instructional record library for elementary schools ..
howard mitchell and the national symphony perform in the first two releases ,, designed for grades one and two ..
teaching guides are included with each record ..


	in an effort to fortify himself against the unforseen upsets sure to arise in the future ,, herbert a. leggett ,, banker of the phoenix ```` arizona progress '''' ,, reflects upon a few of the depressing experiences of the feverish fifties ..


	one of the roughest was the tv quiz shows ,, which gave him inferiority complexes ..
though it was a great relief when the big brains on these shows turned out to be frauds and phonies ,, it did irreparable damage to the ego of the editor and many another intelligent ,, well american ..


	but the one that upset the financially wise was the professional dancer who related in a book how he parlayed his$ earnings into a $2,000,000 profit on the stock market ..
every man who dabbles in the market to make a little easy money on the side and suffers losses could at the time hardly face his$ wife who was wondering how her$ husband could be so dumb ..
investors breathed more freely when it was learned that this acrobatic dancer had turned magician and was only doing a best seller book to make some dough ..


	people who take us for suckers are like the westerner who had on exhibit his$ superior marksmanship in the form of a number of bull's achievements ..
the promoter who wanted to sign him up for the circus asked him how he was able to do it ..
his$ answer was simple but honest ..
he just shot at the board and then drew circles around the holes to form a bull's ..


	one of the obstacles to the easy control of a 2 child is a lack of verbal communication ..
the child understands no ..
he senses his$ mother's$ disapproval ..
but explanations leave him confused and unmoved ..


	if his$ mother loves him ,, he clings to that love as a ballast ..
it motivates his$ behavior ..
he wants mommy to think him a good boy ..
he doesn't* want her to look frowningly at him ,, or speak to him angrily ..
this breaks his$ heart ..
he wants to be called sweet ,, good ,, considerate and mother's$ little helper ..
but even mother's$ loving attitude will not* always prevent misbehavior ..


	his$ desires are so strong that he needs constant reassurance of his$ mother's$ love for him and what she expects of him ,, in order to overcome them ..
his$ own inner voice ,, which should tell him what not* to do ,, has not* developed ..
it won't* develop until he has words with which to clothe it ..
the conscience is non in the 2 ..


	what can a mother do then to prevent misbehavior ?. ?.
she can decrease the number of temptations ..
she can remove all knick within reach ..
the fewer nos she has to utter the more effective they will be ..


	she should offer substitutes for the temptations which seem overwhelmingly desirable to the child ..
if he can't* play with mommy's$ magazines ,, he should have some old numbers of his$ own ..
if daddy's$ books are out of bounds his$ own picture books are not* ..
toys he has can be made to act as substitutes for family temptations such as refrigerator and gas stove ..


	during this precarious period of development the mother should continue to influence the growth of the child's$ conscience ..
she tells him of the consequences of his$ behavior ..
if he bites a playmate she says ,, ```` danny won't* like you '''' ..
if he snatches a toy ,, she says ,, ```` caroline wants her$ own truck just as you do '''' ..


	there is no use trying to ```` explain '''' to a 2 ..
actions speak louder ..
remove temptations ..
remove the child from the scene of his$ misbehavior ..
substitute approved objects for forbidden ones and keep telling him how he is to act ..
he won't* submit to his$ natural desires all the time ,, and it's+bez mother's$ love that is responsible for his$ good behavior ..

